---
description: The game canvas itself
---

# 1.4.1

_Here is the outline of the first important algorithm that will be needed. This is written in JavaScript, as I did get it running with a bit of trial and error, but also keep in mind that this is NOT the final algorithm, and I am treating it as more pseudocode, or a frame, to change later. The fill style will not be done with colours, and instead sliced images. It will also have more functionality than simply displaying a backdrop._

The variables here are:

<mark style="color:red;">`ctx`</mark>, which is used for HTML Canvas. It is set to null, and when the window loads it checks to see if ‘myScreen’, a canvas, exists, and if so sets the context to 2d.

<mark style="color:red;">`gameMap`</mark>, an array. It is one dimensional to make it easier to handle, but a 2-d array would have worked as well with some tweaks to the algorithm.

<mark style="color:red;">`tileW`</mark>, which is an integer and is the Width of a tile.

<mark style="color:red;">`tileH`</mark>, which is an integer and the Height of a tile.

(the above two make a square, and the numbers are respective to the actual size of the canvas.)

<mark style="color:red;">`mapW`</mark> and <mark style="color:red;">`mapH`</mark> refer to how many tiles wide and high the canvas is respectively.



<mark style="color:yellow;">`Window.onload = function()`</mark> is a short function that fetches the canvas, and calls the function drawGame with an in-built canvas method, requestAnimationFrame, which updates every frame. The reason this is used, and not initialised once, is because a character will be added and will be able to interact with the environment. This allows it to respond in roughly real time.

drawGame() is what actually displays the game. Its short at the moment as its only purpose is to display the bare bones. It firstly checks that the canvas is there, using the CTX, then if so gets to displaying it using a nested for loop. What happens here is that:

_start at y=0. Start at x=0. Loop while x is not larger than map width, and increment x by one every pass. We then get to a switch case. This switch case gets the game map, and checks the number respective. If we are on the first tile, it checks the very first number in the array, and as it moves along in the canvas tiles, it also moves along the game map. If the number in the game map is 0, it will choose the colour green, and if its not 0, it will choose the colour brown. (We could have used if/else, but I have used a switch case because it’s easier to add cases.) It then moves from the switch case, and fills a rectangle with the colour selected. The rectangle multiplies the x by the width to get the x coordinate to place the rectangle, and the y by the height to get the y coordinate of the rectangle, then just gets the width and height of the tile from tileW and tileH as to know how much of that section will be filled._
