# The problem

RO is a student in year 8 who hates learning CSS. He dislikes how much of the process feels pointless, and how abstractly you must visualise the goal and guess your way towards getting it “right”, as well as not fully understanding certain attributed such as display, and how that actually affects things- because he can’t see it. He has tried using online guides and tutorials, but still struggles in conceptualising things.

On the other hand, he enjoys video games a lot. He finds the way games present information in a puzzle-like format with an incredibly clear goal given a substantial amount easier to process information.

In today’s digital age, many platforms have put a hand at taking the idea of “learning” and “gamifying” it- introducing more incentive to learn, and more fun too. Take Minecraft Education Edition for example; an incredibly famous game many children are familiar with its own spinoff that allows children to create algorithms in a drag-n-drop block-based IDE. It aids them with understanding algorithms, and even has the option to allow for custom JavaScript for the high achievers- and far from the only example at attempts of turning learning into a game.

Solving this problem of struggling with conceptualising CSS that RO has is ideal to be solved computationally; CSS is a styling language and is visual in nature. You can put it into a visual game, such as an orthometric RPG, and have it match its environment, resulting in the possibility of environmental puzzles, where you can manipulate the CSS to change the scenario with the possibility of win conditions and lose conditions. On top of that, CSS is only useful when run utilising a computer, so actually being able to use it would certainly help. Games have a variety of formats, digital and not, but at the heart of almost all games is a sort of algorithm that can be easily understood, even ones such as RPGs- take “Dungeons and Dragons” as a famous example of a non-digital one- with the idea of the “gameplay loop”. The details surrounding the story we can ignore for the time being, but the idea of the turn-based fighting is, in its nature, an algorithm. This makes them perfect to design computationally.
